[Music]
so when you square non-married
I'm stronger with Platts like
objectively if I am imaging that in
flats that's as as loose or mobile as
your cards need to be so if you can't
achieve the depth in short great lashing
out but if I look at your squats and
you're going deep yeah so it's like
don't need to go that deep is a lot of
it's a hip dominant movement so you
don't need to get your hamstrings
pressed up against your calves
that's that's the quarter set focus so
for me if I'm doing a high bar yeah I
want that might you know ask to grass
but if you're doing a low bar squat full
depth doesn't mean ask to grass anyway
if you don't like it you don't do it you
know man
and it's so odd to put my name in
someone I've got shorts on I really need
to get new on my carbs or like I used
bet these are buttons and their minions
and I like they're like buddy cutting
off my calf circulation blood restricted
blood flow training that happens to my
hamstrings with these sometimes I'm like
yeah I'm like oh my god I've got to take
em off they're burning here this is
going to be a low bar squat we're both
doing low bar squat
they do other variations as well but
today because we've got the cameras on
us we want to lift as heavy as possible
this is the strongest way to do a squat
low bar squad had he grabs the bar nice
and closest closes her shoulder mobility
of ours places the barbell on the shop
created by the results see the bouncer
sees the buyers to see it on top of that
not below it she pulls her elbows back
and her shoulder blades down towards her
back pocket now all of these muscles are
on supporting this heavy weight that has
to sit on her spine so you want all
these muscles every single muscle from
the barbell down to be supporting that
way let's go okay so she takes small
steps to get back stand in her position
which is vote comfortable stance toes
pointing very slightly outlet taking big
breath initiate the movement by opening
the hips push the knees out spreading
the floor knees yeah the same direction
as the toes she goes as deep as her
mobility allows which just so happens to
be asked grass well she doesn't go
deeper than that unnecessarily
I'll be good and if she did you'll see a
lot more rounding in her low back we
don't want any of that we want rigid
torso neutral spine throughout the
entire movement so let's check out you
know she's not coached by me but she's a
great scorer
so she knows her stuff as well but have
a look at a few obvious differences the
main one that I see is her shoes the
shoes elevated heel and what that's
going to allow is a deeper squad however
in a loadmaster squad for powerlifting
competition it's not entirely necessary
to go exactly as big is that all she
needs to go is as deep as the crease of
her hip to go below the top of her name
you can see she's go a lot deeper than
that
so my recommendation let's just say
Lauren was my athlete I'd say hey let's
ditch the shoes shoes as well for my low
bust what's as a variation but if I was
to compete on like the heaviest weight
possible flats I would recommend heels
like you know you know my best
supporters actually have heels so for
Alex Simon Vasa these are three guys
that can squat for 24 Vasa for 35 for
Alex Simon and 460 kilograms for Thor
and they all use the elevated heel
weightlifting shoes so it's not to say
that you can't squat well with those
weightlifting shoes but the reason why
they do they lack the mobility to
achieve that powerlifting depth with
flats but if you are mobile like you
girls
that's just my recommendation
myself they though I challenge anyone to
that one I'm the most keep mobile person
in the room nearby five achieve palette
to depth which is all I need for my
competition for my sport so something
that I liked is to have the face the
eyes up looking straight ahead close the
eyes so if you're looking down a lot of
the times when people fail the weights
when they're looking down that's where
they fail they fall forward it's a cure
that was taught to me by only
Lillibridge senior these guys in my
opinion are the best technical squatters
out of the heavyweights on the planet
they have one rule that's the look
straight ahead so that's why I do it
a few days off to the world to refer to
their lay together like cats to
ascension together and like we hadn't
spotted in a while we were on the bar
and we did a couple of sets on 80 and we
were both like it was so hard and we're
just like yeah we just fine okay
so next up 105 what we're doing the
girls just got up to 100 kilograms with
10 kilogram increases obviously they can
go heavier and they are going heavier
but now we're going to reduce the size
of the increment increase two fives
instead of 10 kilo jumps I find in my
experience working with most of the
women they respond editor more warm-up
sets smaller increments and these girls
both agree Lauren is that right you like
to do a lot of warm-up sets yeah my body
the responds better like the honey
killers will feel heavy but then like
110 might feel better than the 100
to a tip set and then I do back down
work the the back down work even if it's
more volume felt better than what the
warm-up was on that that way and I wish
that's whywe like a fine actually wave
loading works quite well for me it's
just like the waves just get better even
as it gets heavier and then you're gonna
switch it on for that one will do hut so
usually you go high volume and low
weight or high weight and low volume but
the back down work we're going to go
high weight at high volume vomit session
yeah
yeah because we've now just gone up and
smaller in earnest as well I'm Lauren
one thing that I know this is you to
your really quick turn out the way I
like a little bit more time just squeeze
the borrowing really tight and just take
an extra second or so
[Music]
and squeeze it into slitting squeeze
your back shoulders so you kind of
banging in there yeah yeah so I choose
what it says the different techniques
not that mine's better or anything like
that I just don't have mobile so usually
takes you could go closer than I feel so
much and feel so unstable I'm like hey
my hands go is like way my hands going
it's just I can tuck them in right here
and feel that's where I feel the safest
I got I've got some mobility issues in
my shoulders let me see yeah I go from
yeah but I'm trying to go as close as
possible but I just I I cannot that's as
close as my shoulder mobility allows
hang on a second am i doing something
wrong
what was that wait does 105
[Music]
kilograms and I moved really really
nicely you can say that she respects the
white but you can also say that there's
more in there
[Music]
it's like between two thousand two
hundred to two thousand six hundred
they're like the like the last three
days of four days that I've been in
Sydney like I've gone from like I'd ride
to the beach every day do like 400
calories it's dropped so much I'm like
I've had to just shave off a whole bunch
of calories because I was like not as
active in it's like Oh hate it so I'm
just trying to like to find that balance
now between it all but my food is still
hot which I like I like waking up hungry
I like being hungry in the day but then
I like having big fulfilling meals yeah
so how many meals have you had so far I
don't want to eat too much for a train
today but um it was like a six hundred
calorie meal we've been times we've been
like group dinner set settings and like
she literally out eats meat it's like
how does that happen
how do you I'm really impressed by the
amount of food that you ate him like I
thank you you better be quick around me
I like said to my sister bought her
boyfriend out for dinner the other night
I said to him you better be quick
because I will vacuum clean this off
like everything yeah I want to EXCI Brad
like I'm likes anyone else want any
breath it was like no I was like can I
get it covered
for myself please
so you're bulking for the session
[Music]
[Applause]
he was sensible so I think 130 is a
great target for both of you yes we can
do rats free up my whole day but that
would be cool to have you girls again
and it'd be cool to have you killed
so yeah so so we're agreed 130 kilos
each
[Music]
[Applause]
you
to pause at the bottom before you drive
it up so what you're doing is you're
going bum up and you're driving your
hips in and lifting it simultaneously
you can't guarantee precision their
precision wins so the way that I like to
do is to sit the bum down stretch then
push so I like to come to a complete
standstill before you lift the weight
off okay so don't go I mean lift the
weight up okay that's that's something
that I can make sense to create momentum
but you're not precise when I remember
when I taught how do you that she didn't
like it because she's used to trying to
you know get a run off to pick up the
weight so she didn't like it but now I
would go as far as to say Patti has a
perfect deadly like that's how I want to
be
[Music]
yeah I think it might add this much but
it works like your hands are on the
inside of this line yeah yeah most
people are just I grab the line cuz
that's pretty much where the
shoulder-width kind of hits but yours is
here which is good well interestingly
it's not really
it's your arms are straight down which
is that's what we want that's the most
efficient position most efficient
position for grip and the arm position
is for them to be straight down that's
where our arms are the longest and
that's where we have to travel the least
distance anywhere outside on inside of
straight down we have to travel a little
bit further making the movement less
efficient another thing as well this is
a Texas deadlift bar is that you do it's
you know and it bends and it teaches you
how to take this law act let's bend the
bars take the slack out the other stiff
bars that don't bend so it kind of bites
and it feels it feels heavier but I feel
that even if you some people don't like
to use this because it's not the bar
they compete with in competition but I
still feel that if you don't compete
with this bar it teaches you how to do
this better than a
so we've all agreed the 140 is top
weight today is that what we all agreed
we know is your sieve in 1/4 samples my
advice is this is a this is a cool dude
weight you know 140 kilos usually we
should have done at the cool dude way
which is three blue plates but we
already agreed that that read matches my
shoes
[Music]
so 140 kilograms is the top set we're
gonna strip 10 kilos of each side
let's do five reps what do you say
[Music]
okay great session guys what a great day
well thank you so much for coming over
girls Boca I'm Lauren Simpson that's the
first time I've ever work with you
damn I'm impressed now how do you know
we've been working together for years
but always impresses me to watch such
little chicks lift huge weights what a
great day for those of you who don't
know who these girls are which will be a
big surprise to me if you don't why
don't you tell them where they can find
you on Instagram at Lauren Simpson on
Instagram at Haddie boydle so these
girls both huge influences around the
world for thousands not even thousands
billions I'm using I'm using words to
explain myself
millions of not just women people around
the world love and look up to these
girls so I'm sure you if you haven't
heard of these two amazing women I'm
sure that you'll find something in their
accounts that you might look up to give
them a follow but that was right there
I'd love to do it again sometime
what do you say girls so this session
was five weeks after worlds
championships so that was an aesthetics
show where they weren't supposed to be
strong so as amazingly strong as they
were today that's not as strong as they
get so I really want to get these girls
on the same day when they're both
peaking in their strength and I
guarantee you we're gonna add a lot more
weight to the bar
[Music]